---
title: Why I Quit My Job As a Trader
date: 2020-12-09
---

> I wish I knew what I wanted back then. That I wanted to build the future more than beat the market. That a kid in Shanghai who witnessed skyscrapers sprouting like weeds, who came of age when tech like Taobao, the iPhone, and WeChat transformed his life and the lives of everyone around him, would look into the future and see growth and change and opportunity.


There are some people who hear "derivatives" and think of some documentary decrying Wall Street greed or Warren Buffett's infamous quote "financial weapons of mass destruction." I, however, went to work for a single stock equity derivatives desk for a global investment bank, in the former building that Lehman Brothers once proudly called their global headquarters.

Like most fresh college graduates landing a 100k a year job, at a top sell-side trading desk, I was excited. I was here to beat the market, a fast-paced, dynamic game where the measure of merit was your P&L. The people I would be working with, who I had met the summer before, were whip-smart, loved their jobs, and good human beings. Wolf of Wall Street this wasn't. My coworkers were a mix of White, Indian, and Chinese, and none of them were coked out pitching penny stocks to grandma.

After breezing through the certification process, I was anxious to grind it out, prove my worth, and learn what it takes to become a More-Money-Than-God Trader. So I set myself to making my new teammates, the biotech sector traders, very happy. My second week on the desk, I pitched a trade on an FDA advisory committee meeting that the full-time analyst mentioned I should look at as he left on a Friday afternoon. The head trader said good call, let's position the book accordingly, and the next day I stared at a group of old and distinguished scientists discuss whether the treatment effect on a particular subgroup was sufficient to approve an indication like they were missionaries delivering God's truth on earth, because as the stock convulsed after their decision my team made more money than my annual salary. Far more. A moment to be proud of, to be excited. But I wasn't as excited as I thought I'd be.

A month later, I knew the hacked together R application I built was a niche tool for the niche use case of estimating biotech stock distributions, where predicted outcomes look a lot more like discrete step functions rather than a smooth normal distribution. Yet when the desk analyst said the implied bimodal price distribution was surprisingly accurate, I was unreasonably proud of my work. All my work had done was save myself from a few hours of Excel wonkery when my desk analyst wanted a feel for a stock that caught his eye. But in its own tiny way, the code I wrote felt so powerful. It felt like the future.

However, my future as trader was starting to slip away, no matter how hard I tried to grasp it. The truth began to haunt me when I tried to sleep, even as I worked nights and weekends, telling myself I'll like the job once I got good enough. The truth that I didn't fit the job. That although I enjoyed investing and trading and the grand competition of financial markets, although I was smart and competent and hard-working enough to get by, I just couldn't summon the same level of enthusiasm as my colleagues. When I saw my head trader energetically chatting with a hedge fund client about whether to do a 1x2 or call spread or maybe a 1x3 call spread with the short leg on a higher strike, I saw the difference between my mere conscientiousness to do a good job and their genuine love of the game, between what I had and what it took excel as a professional trader.

I wish I knew what I wanted back then. That I wanted to build the future more than beat the market. That a kid in Shanghai who witnessed skyscrapers sprouting like weeds, who came of age when tech like Taobao, the iPhone, and WeChat transformed his life and the lives of everyone around him, would look into the future and see growth and change and opportunity. That he couldn’t just sit on the sidelines and trade on the future. But at least I knew now that I had to be part of the action. I knew now that I would regret, for a lifetime, not using my 20s to take on enormous risk and prioritize progresss and innovation just as much, if not more than, my personal profit and loss.

The only problem was that I had spent years chasing a career that now I didn't want. I felt so stupid. Ungrateful. Weak. Capricious. Not Good Enough. Everything I tried not to be. I told myself that this was a job many would kill to have. A job that, if I didn't mess up phenomenally, would allow me to enjoy the life of an upper-middle class professional in New York City. Yet every day I saw the traders 10+ years my senior, who cleared millions in a good year and maybe only a million in a slow one, leave right after market close at 4:00PM to pick up their kids from school, and I thought to myself, it just isn't for me.

I shared my concerns with my manager. I explored other roles at the company. Research. Risk. But my heart wasn't in it. It was the same company, the same people, the same set of values, that didn't fit, no matter how hard I tried to convince myself that I should fit. I felt like a hollow, crumbling shell of my former self. I was experiencing the worst depression I felt in my life. So after I called my parents, and told them I failed, I tried, but I just couldn't, and they said it's all ok, we understand, you can come home, I broke down, booked a flight, and showed up the next day to work and told them I was leaving, I'm sorry I can't stay to preserve your headcount, my flight leaves this weekend, and I felt the greatest fear and relief in my life, because this was stepping out into the unknown. Before that moment I was proud of being on track, of always having an internship or job lined up, of steadily ascending the stairway of success. I had what I craved years ago – independence, money, prestige – but over a few days, I gave it all up.

I told myself this was my time to figure out what I really wanted. The gap year I never took because I was always rushing towards the next marker of achievement. But it took me months to finally get over the feeling that I was a burden, a parasite, weak. To switch my mind set and wake up and ask myself, what if it was all a gift? To dare myself to live, as Christopher Hitchens said, "as if", as if everything that happened to me, all the mistakes I've made and failures I've faced, is something I can look back with gratitude.

So what if burning out, quitting my job, and moving back in with my parents, was a gift?